# ShareTrace

## Overview

COVID ShareTrace Citizen-generative risk tracing with personal data accounts

We can stop COVID-19 and we’re building a new, rich-featured, truly private way of tracking location and profiling risk securely to preserve privacy and #flattenthecurve

Location logs store time-stamped records of where users have been, storing them privately in cloud servers legally and functionally owned by the users. With them, information can be shared securely and temporarily with health officials with accuracy and efficiency. Together we can support contact tracing efforts to slow the spread of the virus, and move beyond simple tracing into citizen-supported public health.

Safetrace is unique in its privacy protection. Data flows freely travel between the users' devices and their own personal data account, allowing for rich-featured without compromising their privacy. Data never leaves the user's cloud-based personal data account without their password entry and explicit consent. All location logs leveraged by the ShareTrace app are thus stored privately on the user side, and cannot be accessed by the ShareTrace application or anyone else outside of the user without their explicit knowledge and consent. Data transfer from the users' personal data account to researchers, public health authorities, and other applications is possible only at the user's direction.

ShareTrace is a truly private app that allows you to log your GPS locations on personal, private storage. The information is stored locally and never shared with anyone (not even with us). If you explicitly decide to manually share your data you can do so freely and with granular personal data exchange agreements. Data can also be shared with other organisations can also remain in your personal data account. The location log generated by ShareTrace Paths cannot be accessed from outside your personal data account.

Home page: https://www.sharetrace.org

## Development

ShareTrace is written in Typescript and presently powered by Expo.js

Getting up and running:

1. Install the expo-cli: `npm install expo-cli --global`
2. Install dependencies: `yarn install`
3. Run development environment: `yarn start`

### Testing

Presently we have unit test coverage using the jest test runner and testing-library/native-testing-library

To run the unit tests: `yarn test` or `yarn test:watch`

---

## Additional

### Accessing latest build via expo (Android only\*)

-   Download Expo from the Google Play Store: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=host.exp.exponent&hl=en_GB
-   Visit the ShareTrace expo URL: https://exp.host/@ryanhyslop/sharetrace
-   Select 'Scan QR Code' in expo app and scan the QR code on the Expo webpage.
-   Dismiss the developer hint and close dev tools modal that appears using the close (x) icon in the top right of the popover.
-   And there we go 👍

*   iOS currently requires a custom expo client build signed with developer credentials for background location tracking.

# Pushing to Apple Developer accounts

-   Update the version in app.json

-   `expo build:ios` - follow instructions
-   `expo upload:ios` - follow instructions (you may need to generate an app-specific password. The instructions to do so are provided by the CLI when running the command)
